README.md, before:

# TDCRPy

`TDCRPy` is a Python code to calculate detection efficiency of a liquide scintillation counter using 3-photomultiplier tubes.
The calculation is based on the photo-physical model called of the Triple-to-Double-Coincidence-Ratio method (TDCR) [[1]](#1) and a Monte-Carlo sampling allowing to adress complexe decay schemes and radionuclide mixtures.

The code is developped and maintained by the BIPM (MIT license).


## Installation

`TDCRPy` requires that the following packages are installed in your `Python` environement.

```shell
pip install importlib.resources configparser numpy tqdm setuptools scipy
```
or in `conda` environement:

```shell
conda install importlib.resources configparser numpy tqdm setuptools scipy
```

Then, `TDCRPy` can be installed.

```shell
pip install TDCRPy
```

To obtain the last version.

```shell
pip install TDCRPy --upgrade
```

The module can be imported in your Python code such as.

```python
import tdcrpy
```

## The function `TDCRPy()`

This 







The process is summarized in the figure below.

<img src="./FlowChart.jpg" alt="drawing" width="500"/>

## Nuclear decay 

The code directly reads decay data from the Decay Data Evaluation Project (DDEP) web interface [[2]](#2) that is recommanded to be used by the radionuclide metrology community. The PenNuc format [[3]](#3) is used to simulate decays and the $\beta$ spectra from the BetaShape code [[4]](#4) are used. The BetaShape code estimates accurate $\beta$ spectra by taking the atomic exchange effect and also simulate accurately electron capture decay [[5]](#5). It has been demonstrated to offer significant improvement in the context of liquid scintillation counting [[6]](#6).

## Atomic relaxation

The atomic relaxation from missing electrons in the inner-shell following electron capture and internal conversion is simulated by ENSDF data on the DDEP web interface. 

## Interaction

The interaction of $\gamma$ rays, electrons and positrons are simulated using response kernels calculated by the Monte-Carlo code MCNP6 developped by Los Alamos [[13]](#13). 

## Scintillation

The stopping power of electrons between 20 keV and 1000 keV is a mixture of a radiative loss model [[7]](#7) and a collision model [[8]](#8) that has been validated agaisnt the NIST model ESTAR [[9]](#9) recommanded by the ICRU Report 37 [[10]](#10). At low energy - between 10 eV and 20 keV - the model from Tan and Xia [[11]](#11) is implemented.

The stopping power of $\alpha$ particles of energy comprises between 1 keV and 8 MeV comes from the NIST code ASTAR [[9]](#9) recommanded in the ICRU Report 49 [[12]](#12). For energy below 1 keV, an extrapolation is made.

## Statistical model

...

## References

<a id="1">[1]</a> Ryszard Broda, Krzysztof Pochwalski, Tomasz Radoszewski, Calculation of liquid-scintillation detector efficiency, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **39**:2, 1988, 159-164, https://doi.org/10.1016/0883-2889(88)90161-X

<b id="2">[2]</b> http://www.lnhb.fr/ddep_wg/

<c id="3">[3]</c> E. García-Toraño, V. Peyres, F. Salvat, PenNuc: Monte Carlo simulation of the decay of radionuclides, *Computer Physics Communications* **245**, 2019, 106849 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.08.002

<c id="4">[4]</c> X. Mougeot, Erratum: Reliability of usual assumptions in the calculation of $\beta$ and $\bar{\mu}$ spectra, *Physical Review C* **91**, 2015, 055504, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.92.059902

<c id="5">[5]</c> X. Mougeot, Towards high-precision calculation of electron capture decays, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **154**, 2019, 108884,  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2019.108884

<c id="6">[6]</c> K. Kossert, X. Mougeot, Improved activity standardization of <sup>90</sup>Sr/<sup>90</sup>Y by means of liquid scintillation counting, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **168**, 2021, 109478, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2020.109478

<c id="7">[7]</c> S.M. Seltzer, M.R. Berger, M. R., Evaluation of the collision stopping power of elements and compounds for electrons and positrons, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **33**:11, 1982, 1189-1218, https://doi.org/10.1016/0020-708x(82)90244-7

<c id="8">[8]</c> M.O. El-Ghossain, Calculations Of Stopping Power, And Range Of Electrons Interaction With Different Material And Human Body Parts, *International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research* **6**:1 2017. https://www.ijstr.org/final-print/jan2017/Calculations-Of-Stopping-Power-And-Range-Of-Electrons-Interaction-With-Different-Material-And-Human-Body-Parts.pdf

<c id="9">[9]</c> M.J. Berger, J.S. Coursey, M.A. Zucker and J. Chang,Stopping-Power & Range Tables for Electrons, Protons, and Helium Ions, *NIST Standard Reference Database 124*, 2017, https://dx.doi.org/10.18434/T4NC7P

<c id="10">[10]</c> ICRU Report 37, *Stopping Powers for Electrons and Positrons*

<c id="11">[11]</c> Z. Tan, Y. Xia, Stopping power and mean free path for low-energy electrons in ten scintillators over energy range of 20–20,000 eV, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **70**, 2012, 296-300, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2011.08.012

<c id="12">[12]</c> ICRU Report 49, *Stopping Power and Ranges for Protons and Alpha Particles*, https://www.icru.org/report/stopping-power-and-ranges-for-protons-and-alpha-particles-report-49/

<c id="13">[13]</c> https://mcnp.lanl.gov/

Commit message:

generate code documentation with sphinx autodoc

README.md, after:

# TDCRPy

`TDCRPy` is a Python code to calculate detection efficiency of a liquide scintillation counter using 3-photomultiplier tubes.
The calculation is based on the photo-physical model called of the Triple-to-Double-Coincidence-Ratio method (TDCR) [[1]](#1) and a Monte-Carlo sampling allowing to adress complexe decay schemes and radionuclide mixtures.

The code is developped and maintained by the BIPM (MIT license).


## Installation

`TDCRPy` requires that the following packages are installed in your `Python` environement.

```shell
pip install importlib.resources configparser numpy tqdm setuptools scipy
```
or in `conda` environement:

```shell
conda install importlib.resources configparser numpy tqdm setuptools scipy
```

Then, `TDCRPy` can be installed.

```shell
pip install TDCRPy
```

To obtain the last version.

```shell
pip install TDCRPy --upgrade
```

The module can be imported in your Python code such as.

```python
import tdcrpy
```

## Documentation
The full documentation for this project can be found [here](docs/_build/index.html).



The process is summarized in the figure below.

<img src="./FlowChart.jpg" alt="drawing" width="500"/>

## Nuclear decay 

The code directly reads decay data from the Decay Data Evaluation Project (DDEP) web interface [[2]](#2) that is recommanded to be used by the radionuclide metrology community. The PenNuc format [[3]](#3) is used to simulate decays and the $\beta$ spectra from the BetaShape code [[4]](#4) are used. The BetaShape code estimates accurate $\beta$ spectra by taking the atomic exchange effect and also simulate accurately electron capture decay [[5]](#5). It has been demonstrated to offer significant improvement in the context of liquid scintillation counting [[6]](#6).

## Atomic relaxation

The atomic relaxation from missing electrons in the inner-shell following electron capture and internal conversion is simulated by ENSDF data on the DDEP web interface. 

## Interaction

The interaction of $\gamma$ rays, electrons and positrons are simulated using response kernels calculated by the Monte-Carlo code MCNP6 developped by Los Alamos [[13]](#13). 

## Scintillation

The stopping power of electrons between 20 keV and 1000 keV is a mixture of a radiative loss model [[7]](#7) and a collision model [[8]](#8) that has been validated agaisnt the NIST model ESTAR [[9]](#9) recommanded by the ICRU Report 37 [[10]](#10). At low energy - between 10 eV and 20 keV - the model from Tan and Xia [[11]](#11) is implemented.

The stopping power of $\alpha$ particles of energy comprises between 1 keV and 8 MeV comes from the NIST code ASTAR [[9]](#9) recommanded in the ICRU Report 49 [[12]](#12). For energy below 1 keV, an extrapolation is made.

## Statistical model

...

## References

<a id="1">[1]</a> Ryszard Broda, Krzysztof Pochwalski, Tomasz Radoszewski, Calculation of liquid-scintillation detector efficiency, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **39**:2, 1988, 159-164, https://doi.org/10.1016/0883-2889(88)90161-X

<b id="2">[2]</b> http://www.lnhb.fr/ddep_wg/

<c id="3">[3]</c> E. García-Toraño, V. Peyres, F. Salvat, PenNuc: Monte Carlo simulation of the decay of radionuclides, *Computer Physics Communications* **245**, 2019, 106849 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.08.002

<c id="4">[4]</c> X. Mougeot, Erratum: Reliability of usual assumptions in the calculation of $\beta$ and $\bar{\mu}$ spectra, *Physical Review C* **91**, 2015, 055504, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.92.059902

<c id="5">[5]</c> X. Mougeot, Towards high-precision calculation of electron capture decays, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **154**, 2019, 108884,  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2019.108884

<c id="6">[6]</c> K. Kossert, X. Mougeot, Improved activity standardization of <sup>90</sup>Sr/<sup>90</sup>Y by means of liquid scintillation counting, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **168**, 2021, 109478, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2020.109478

<c id="7">[7]</c> S.M. Seltzer, M.R. Berger, M. R., Evaluation of the collision stopping power of elements and compounds for electrons and positrons, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **33**:11, 1982, 1189-1218, https://doi.org/10.1016/0020-708x(82)90244-7

<c id="8">[8]</c> M.O. El-Ghossain, Calculations Of Stopping Power, And Range Of Electrons Interaction With Different Material And Human Body Parts, *International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research* **6**:1 2017. https://www.ijstr.org/final-print/jan2017/Calculations-Of-Stopping-Power-And-Range-Of-Electrons-Interaction-With-Different-Material-And-Human-Body-Parts.pdf

<c id="9">[9]</c> M.J. Berger, J.S. Coursey, M.A. Zucker and J. Chang,Stopping-Power & Range Tables for Electrons, Protons, and Helium Ions, *NIST Standard Reference Database 124*, 2017, https://dx.doi.org/10.18434/T4NC7P

<c id="10">[10]</c> ICRU Report 37, *Stopping Powers for Electrons and Positrons*

<c id="11">[11]</c> Z. Tan, Y. Xia, Stopping power and mean free path for low-energy electrons in ten scintillators over energy range of 20–20,000 eV, *Applied Radiation and Isotopes* **70**, 2012, 296-300, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apradiso.2011.08.012

<c id="12">[12]</c> ICRU Report 49, *Stopping Power and Ranges for Protons and Alpha Particles*, https://www.icru.org/report/stopping-power-and-ranges-for-protons-and-alpha-particles-report-49/

<c id="13">[13]</c> https://mcnp.lanl.gov/
